I've been doing this for many years.
I've never had a complaint.
Ben Bradley was joined by Tom Winship, my manager.
Your manager?
I like you're a fighter.
Do you know what the first printing of the... It's up to a hundred and they've gone back.
They don't do printings the way they used to.
I think they printed
85, then they printed five more, then five more, and then 20 more.
But, you know, it's just reserving an hour on a press.
It isn't that big a deal.
But I think there's 120 in print now.
Congratulations, that's wonderful.
Fabulous, wouldn't it?
You've been paid.
I've been paid.
So theoretically, there's nothing different.
I'd have to sell a hell of a lot of copies to get any more dough out of it.
To earn out, as they say.
But now, you know, you suddenly start and you say, Jesus, I wonder how close you can come to Powell.
Yes, nice to see you.
I'm sorry we weren't able to get together in Washington.
I was down a couple weeks ago.
Oh, you were?
We were going to try and sign up a thing in your office.
You could have done that.
I couldn't get an earlier flight down.
I was signing my own book in Washington.
What did you do?
Back to talking about Ben Brown.
It's interesting.
As a former naval officer myself, I noticed that you coach your fitness reports.
They really do mean a lot, don't they?
They do.
and there's something about all of us that we look for evidence evidence of effectiveness you know really any goddamn good and never mind all the things you told yourself or your friends told you but were you anyway what's the record show you cast any shadow at all and uh for a while there i had that job that took me all around and i thought
Manning cuffs me a little for writing too many of them.
I like that review though.
I thought Bob Manning did a nice job with that review.
He should have said that he's mad as hell at me because the Washington Post never reviewed his book.
that's right and most other people well he was mad as hell and dad and he thought that i could have fixed that nothing they can do you know you go to a book review a book editor and say i want you to review this thing they'll say they'll find a way not to do it he should know better than anybody his wife his stuff isn't he isn't my book editor because she knew how that worked anyway
You were at your black shoe sale, 19 tin cans, I guess.
19 tin cans the last year and one for two, two and a half years, yeah.
It's quite an experience, isn't it?
I remember it.
Well, you know, I majored in Greek at Harvard College and, you know, I would have farted around after, you know, without a war.
What the hell would we all have done?
I mean, he and his dad was a journalist, and he knew that he wanted to be, but I didn't know that.
Well, you and I wrote letters of hate killers.
You can't hire us.
You ought to be a wife.
Well, I don't think we ever got an answer, did we?
Well,
I mean, you had that locked.
I didn't, I was just wanting in on it.
That's right.
We wrote the owner of the, I've forgotten that.
The owner of the Globe, but his dad was editor.
Hire both of us and open a bureau and we'll cover it the way it ought to be covered.
you know in your final paragraph that's the last draft in the book you say i miss the excitement of the stories that quicken your pulse what what kind of a story would quicken your pulse right now that would kind of induce you to leave the farm and well it would be and it's everything from the
from what's happening to Colin Powell now, that's really an interesting story, to something like a Lorena Bobbitt story.
Oh yeah, I love that story.
How badly we cover the economy and the middle of the SNL business.
It's hard to make up.
Sexy, that story.
The economy.
That's also the most important step.
It boars people, though.
But it boars people.
I noticed the New York Times just finally put in the A.J.
Simpson story on page one.
That boars me now.
In the next two days it won't.
How would you treat that story if those murders had taken place in Washington?
You point out quite correctly that
We'd have been all over it, and we'd have over-covered it as... Really?
Like, newspapers over-cover things.
Don't you think?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
They just, they hang on to them.
If the Red Sox get in the World Series, it's covered as if it was a second comic book.
Yeah.
But the reason I mention it is you mentioned kerosene journalism and the slaves of the tabloids.
but i wonder i stole that place from somebody and i can't remember who the hell i stole it it's a great line i wonder how you how you'd cover that story would it be a local story for you the oj story well it would be everything i mean it's uh
Because I understand that's all they talk about out in L.A.
is O.J.
Simpson.
Well, it's Tim.
You're all they talked about in Washington for a while.
It's on every television station.
I don't apologize for over-covering.
I bet you we covered the Washington Post covered the...
The Redskins victory over Dallas yesterday, I bet it's on fans one and all over the place.
Well, the Patriots got their asses kicked.
A little trouble, huh?
Can you guys come with that?
I have two famous editors here at the same table.
I wonder, in your view, what elevates a great editor?
I thought we'd say the same thing a great owner But you can't do it
So what do you make of that piece in the New York Times this morning about Long Island News Day?
Oh, I haven't read the Times, I'm sorry, this morning.
They're really losing all their... They offered this buyout, you know, when they closed the New York News Day, and then they're also scaling down the rest of the pages.
Yeah, a lot of the really best people are taking the buyout and leaving, and now they're actually trying to spend it.
Did they offer everyone at Newsday or just New York Newsday?
No, no, actually at Newsday on Long Island as well.
Apparently, according to this story,
they want to have a 70 percent profit throughout all of the all of the LA Times papers so that 17 17 percent is the number they had in the paper they said they went from 794 down to 400 I mean it looked like a 250
reduction in uh editorial personnel so that goes back to what you're saying if you have ownership that's not interested in having a great paper you're not going to have it's impossible to be a great editor you know what what 794 you'd have to read this number i mean that's that's uh that's too many people 350 might be too few you know it also helps uh being a halfway decent editor is to have an excess of energy
Physical and, you know, very important.
It's what I look for in people at Lowry.
I always like to see evidences of energy.
What else do they do?
So do you think, Ben, that reporting is a young man's game or a young woman's game?
No, it don't have to be, but energy is vital.
And I don't think that the younger group now is brighter than we are and they write better than we are, but I don't think they have as much energy.
They want to get home.
And that's probably for various reasons.
The women's movement wants the husbands home earlier to do more and the
And that's not bad either.
But when Tom and I were starting in the business, we worked all night.
We worked at each other's houses.
I mean, the number of times that we went to his house or he came to our house with a bottle of a gallon of Mountain Red, and somebody brought spaghetti, and somebody brought the bread, and we all did the dishes.
And we didn't have 10 bucks in the evening.
But, and then, you know, I remember this great, great night that, what, it was at McLaurice.
Well, we had some guy, it's not important, but some young lawyer, because we knew a lot of lawyers and a lot of CIA people.
And they, they would, the CIA people wouldn't talk, but the lawyers would talk about their clients.
And this guy, Nick Alorek, had a client who was either the Dalai Lama or the son of the Dalai Lama or something.
And we went and talked about it.
We had a little seminar about South Asian politics.
Tom tried to teach the Dalai Lama how to sing Fair Harvest.
Can't sing a note himself.
But we waited until, I think we stayed.
We stayed too long, but we worked hard.
At night we worked hard.
That was work.
It was such fun, it's hard to call it work.
You know, you mentioned in your book how much luck has played through the course, not only of your life, but your career being
at the right place at the right time.
I also wonder, why is it that the most successful people are always accused of being lucky?
I wonder how much of that involves intuition too.
Unusual modesty.
Every good politician, a really successful politician, has a fair amount of money.
He said about one of your photographers, was it your photographer, the Harold Stanley Foreman, you know those two Pulitz's?
They say, well, he's always lucky.
Well, why is it that the same people always manage to be at the right place at the right time?
I've still had a lot of luck.
I know what to do with it, maybe.
I was on the goddamn trolley going past the White House when Oscar Colazzo opened fire on Blair House.
Now, that's a lot.
Okay.
Hey, that's a lot.
I remember reading the message.
Yeah, Robert.
I'm so pissed at me because I got a byline that day.
And I'd been on the tape for 20 minutes.
Yeah, what the hell did he do?
I didn't do anything.
I'll wait until you get an order.
I'm sorry.
What are we going to put?
Okay, I'm back on.
I've read the book, of course, so it's foolish to ask you about things that are in the book.
I wish everybody had read the book.
Well, I wonder how many people have asked you, you know,
If you know who Deep Throat is, when you absolutely say that you were told on the stage who Deep Throat is.
But my question for you is, were you surprised when you were told?
No, I don't even want to get into that.
Okay.
Because, you know, let's say, Jesus Christ, if you're surprised, I mean, if he wasn't, that narrows it down a little.
Yeah, but it certainly does allow us to enter the larger discussion of sources.
Yeah.
I mean, today you would insist on knowing who the source was.
Well, I think I would.
I bet you Mr. Winship would agree, too.
Yeah, because I got subsequently burnt like hell for not knowing somebody's source.
But the fact of the matter, there were 400 Watergate stories, and the evidence built up quite quickly that their source was right.
And as the reporting went on and other papers like the Globe joined in, we were telling the truth.
And so the identity of the source was, once you knew sort of generically who it was and what position he held and what accent he had,
If this wasn't the highest priority, I think now that I would ask for it earlier, but... But you probably insist on it, you might have... Yeah.
By the way, when has we come to Janet Cook, do you know?
I tried to find her to talk to her, and I found someone who knew her and knew where she was, and asked her, and she refused to talk.
I think she's in Toledo.
That's where she came from.
You're kidding.
Toledo uses me.
I leave their page every week.
She went to Hollywood to try to sell a movie about herself.
Then she got married.
She married a lawyer and went to Paris, worked in Paris for a while.
She worked as a bloomy sales girl over Christmas.
She never fell in the hands.
She tried to sell a movie.
She did try to sell a movie right afterwards.
And we were all outraged at that.
But then she, you're quite right, she disappeared.
And she turned over the page.
I mean, she could have.
I've been a pain on the ass.
She left a step of a nail in my soul, in my foot.
She could have kept it alive.
Being single after wisdom broke, Janet Cook.
All these interviewers, they want to, not you, I'm not talking about you, but they fill Donahue's and they just say, how the hell come about it?
You're supposed to be.
How the hell come about it?
Do you think maybe you were writing the euphoria of the Watergate triumph?
Sure.
This guy here was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors that year, and he had conned me into being his program chairman.
I think maybe we'd better discuss the... We had these little early morning sessions.
Who really is the hero of that?
Don and Russ.
He called me out of bed.
Saturday morning, she said, you've got the Janet Cook on the program.
She said, I've read the idea.
You said, I'll have to.
No, she said, I've read the idea of having the Janet Cook thing be bathed out in public, but it's the issue of the day.
And she said, you've got them.
I said, Bradley and I've got the program filled up.
She said, you better find a hole for it.
What is it, 700 people showed up?
It's 7.30 in the morning.
Did they bust my balls?
Oh, they bust my balls a little.
Yeah, sure.
Green did a good job.
Who did it?
Zeed?
No, Green.
Remember Green?
Oh, Green did such a great job.
And Zeed was the moderator, I guess.
But, you know, the post was riding perhaps a little too high then, and all these guys.
I just couldn't wait to see that.
It stuck to me and to the post generally.
So we had it coming.
I mean, if you want to look at it, you said you studied Greek at Harvard now.
So you want to put it in classic terms.
I mean, was there a little bit of hubris here, you think, that the tragic flaw of perhaps... I don't know the tragedy, but it was a good exercise.
I'm very glad we did it.
What?
I also say in this book, then if Russ Wiggin, my predecessor, didn't show up and sit right next to me and Don Graham sat next to me with his hand around my shoulders.
I mean, that's an incredible support of Justin.
Well, it's easy to ride with you when you're doing Watergate and the Pentagon Capers and all these other things, but when you have Janet Cook,
That's when you talk to him.
Mr. Winship said, when you have these great owners, that's when you really need to miss that.
Wiggins is one of the great men of our time.
Wiggins kept saying, I'm delighted to learn of the great state of American journalism.
This could only happen in the Washington Post.
It could never happen anywhere else.
Have you heard from him since the book?
I called him.
Yeah.
No, I called him.
You know, he got a heart incident or something, a stroke, I think, in St.
Louis.
I called him about three months ago, two months ago.
And I called him out there, and I stayed in very close touch.
Oh, yeah.
And tried to cheer him up.
I think he's loneliest.
I'm going to see him next week.
Are you?
Yeah.
Tell him I just think of him all the time.
I will.
To go back to the cook matter, do you think that great stories are seductive to the point that maybe you...
You said the woman could write like an angel.
He wrote awful well.
That's it.
It reads like an angel.
That story that I reread it.
Yeah.
The detail.
Oh, shit.
It's wonderful.
Yeah.
And there's nothing there to raise the flag to save the flag.
Well, not that I heard.
I mean, I now read about other people who were worried about it.
A lot of the black men reporters were interested.
But, uh,
I'm just so worried about pouring kerosene on the racial situation at the Washington Post, which is tough enough as it is.
And then you mentioned that she was working on a story about what is a child prostitute, 12-year-old prostitute, and there was nothing to back that up either.
We said we'd like to meet her before we published it.
And she couldn't produce it.
Just this is off of it.
Richie lied about the 8-year-old drunk that she was going to try a 12-year-old hooker.
That's a cliché.
The first lie, Richie, to a lifetime of lies.
I mean, once you do that,
All of a sudden, you have this extraordinary reporter who's able to get these stories.
Now get us some more, right?
She was absolutely striking looking to her.
Oh, gee, she was pretty.
She did to be true, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what I said.
I get it.
It was the answer to an editor's prayer.
Well, I think she's fulfilled a lot of things.
I always remember a headline, a cover line, it actually was.
It was a magazine called Baseball, years and years and years ago.
Did you ever read?
Yeah, I remember.
And there was a picture of a Phillies outfielder called Maury Arnovich.
And the line was, the answer to a manager's prayer for a hard-hitting Jewish outfielder.
Which is wrong on so many levels.
But the answer to an editor's prayer for a simpler world.
When you took over the post, did you mindfully have it in your sights to make this a great paper?
No, not really.
I mean, I always thought the post was pretty good anyway.
It was.
It had a hell of an editorial page and a hell of a sports section, and it had a handful of...
Fullyard Roberts.
He was not a great writer, but he was sort of a poor boy.
Money's going off the reservation.
But they didn't have any money.
They were losing a million bucks a year.
And, you know, to hire an $80 a week reporter, you had to have the publisher's permission.
This is Kate Graham.
You wonder if she's almost too good to be true.
I mean, the support that she... She was too good to be true.
I mean, she... Tom is an authority on her, too.
I mean, she's quite extraordinary.
The guts that she showed in taking it over from her husband when she had zero training, zero!
And...
Pretty clear, tough head.
I'm worried about it now, Tom.
Oh, me too.
That hook's all bent over.
She seems to get out of here.
Want to take a place in?
she's uh she plays tennis still she says i can play tennis but i can't stand up at a party i remember years ago when i spent the year in washington i had a fellowship down there hanging charlie seed and i yeah i covered the bobby baker trial i was kind of an intern and my job used to be to drive mary mcglory back to the star at the end of it and you mentioned how you used to carry her back
We all did.
We were bearers.
What a thrill that was for me to have my father.
I can't wait to tell Mary.
Another bearer.
You were a driver, though.
But I was also an intern.
I was sitting in the trial, and I was writing my thesis on the Bobby Baker case.
She'll go out with her shoes on, won't she?
She'll never remember.
And wonderfully used by Newby.
Just send her up there.
Is he still around or did he... No.
I knew they had the summer place.
They lived there full-time.
I don't know until the last summer.
Daddy looked great, and so did Bepi.
Yeah.
Bepi.
But he did go down.
He was living at Harvard for a while, then he went down to North Carolina.
Yeah.
Living a very simple life.
I think he's got much money.
Who?
I think he has much money.
Judy?
Well, I don't, they didn't make it, but I don't know what they spent to keep that paper going.
I heard a great anecdote.
I don't know.
I mean, you could use it, I guess, but it's so not apropos.
Who was it that told me this story?
Oh, John Heckinger, who was the old man who ran a big hardware and lumber company in Do-It-Yourself.
And at the time when the Time magazine was...
had given up on the star, really.
They'd lost 85 million dollars, and they were looking for a buyer.
How come a bunch of Washington, D.C.
businessmen went to Shepley, Jim Shepley, and said, you can't let the star fall.
You've got to sell it to us.
And Shepley, this is all heck of a talking to you.
I said, I can't sell it to you.
I'm looking for a sucker.
And Hecken just said, well, there are no suckers out there.
And then he said, well, Joe Albritton found one.
Meaning him, Joe.
That's a huge story.
But I don't know.
If I can get back there.
I brought up Mary McGlory in the Bobby Baker case for a reason.
I wrote this thesis on the Bobby Baker story as the perfect, I remember Charlie Sieb said, the Bobby Baker story was the perfect Washington story.
So remember,
Congress is our city hall.
And I wonder if Watergate was a lot like that for you.
I mean, it's a great national, international story.
But that's right.
And the point is, you put two metro guys on the story.
Two city side reporters, not national reporters.
You originally went on the story.
And you put two metro guys on a break-in, because that's what it was in the beginning.
Well, Joe Calivano tipped Howie Simons to it.
Simons, uh...
It's wonderful how that stuff flows downhill on a Saturday morning called up Barry Sutton.
Harry Roosevelt.
Roosevelt called Sussman.
Sussman called Woodward Burst.
Is that mine or yours?
Yours.
How about some of this stuff?
Don't touch it.
Lemon.
You're quite right.
I'm sorry, I missed that.
Why is he defensive about this?
Well, somebody tried it.
We were there this morning.
Oh, is that this morning?
There's nothing frivolous about the style section.
It's a very, very serious section devoted to covering the non-working light of the community.
The guy, he called style the godfather of me, the godfather of infotainment.
Yeah, come on.
Who did this?
I don't know.
The guy asked me.
What is this?
Serious columns.
Oh, sure.
Serious commentary on the arts.
The most important of all, it's the only word.
I'm sure that.
The only word.
This man, what I've ever heard of, will run two or three major profiles a week.
And they're really terrific profiles.
Good.
Well, you basically pioneered the style section.
I think you maybe even invented the phrase, didn't you?
I think I did.
I think every damn paper in America now has a style section.
Has a style editor.
And they don't call it none of her anymore.
They don't call it style.
A lot of them do.
What do you call yours?
You know, I write for 25 papers, at least half of them have style sessions.
I mean, it's all according to perspective or it's, you know, scene or view or...
Well, is it soft news, so to speak, in your worldview?
Soft news?
Yeah, there's some soft news, but I mean, if you name a new director in the National Gallery, we've got a real hard news profile on it, and there's a lot of...
Take style stories and put them on face.
Paul Mellon's last gift to the National Gallery the other day.
That's a big story.
That's going right on view, too, they said.
It's just amazing, isn't it?
These oysters are really outstanding.
They're terrific.
Tell me about the actual writing of this book.
How long did it take?
I think it could actually be used as a textbook.
It took a long time because I never was a writer like some of these kids can write.
I became a kind of a disciplined writer, but it was years before I could get up from the console of the studio organ with a
I had a feeling that I'd really written a pretty good story.
And then when I got out, I made me an editor, so I didn't write, I rewrote somewhere.
A lot of stuff, did a lot of first one, two graphs or something like that.
Simon used to say I was a sprinter.
150 words after that, he tended to get lost.
So it was...
It's hard to write about yourself and it's hard to write at you.
Be really truthful.
How long did it take your life?
Three years?
Two and a half years?
Did you write it on a word processor?
That's quite a change, isn't it?
Tell them how you started doing.
By getting somebody to know for you.
Yeah.
We went back with a buddy of mine, Tom Wilkinson.
We went back to the early papers from August 65 when I went to work.
We looked at five or six years worth of papers.
And you know what the biggest change in the post is?
I hate to say this, but with design.
It is so much easier to read now before you get into substance.
It's narrow, eight column pages with one column on, and no white space in the makeup at all.
Do you have as many stories as you can?
I think the Globe's design is very good.
Do you think so?
Yeah, I do.
I mean, you know they're going to have to go and do it all over again when they change the web width.
I saw a memo the other day about what is entailed, what that entails, and it's just unbelievable.
What entails?
You mean changing?
Well, they change.
They take a quarter of an inch off of this place and a quarter of an inch off of that.
So the columns are no longer filled with spikers or something like that?
They can't be or else you won't be able to read it if you hold it.
So it's a narrower column?
You either got to narrow the column or go to five and widen it.
And what are you going to do?
You lose a whole lot of your news hall.
And, you know, to handle it, you're going to have to increase the art.
That further reduces the news hall.
They have so much planning to do on that.
You won't believe it.
You know, you walk into any newsroom today, any planet,
Because those of us who work with the line of sight machines with that clacking sound and that wonderful stuff and that, you know, silence in these things, they have music going.
Oh, not music.
Well, whatever.
But you wonder where it's going.
I mean, with the cost of newsprint now, it's close to $1,000.
I mean, they're projecting, aren't they projecting $1,000?
Oh, are they?
Something like, what is it, $600?
Is it 600?
Has it come down at least?
I have a nice time getting it to new newspapers because of this damn newsprint crisis.
Everybody's cut down in their news holes and they're not taking on in their features.
I just wonder where it goes.
Do you think that there's a newspaper that's on your watch, right?
I thought I'd get out long before I had to play something.
I don't know.
You know, there's going to be 500 channels on your...
just on your television set and there's going to be so much uh better than that over and that hotter than that this way pretty soon a great reason for newspapers is that we put some order in your life and uh you know and we already do that a little bit and we already give news readers that second and third paragraphs that the uh television can't give you
Cyberspace is great news for the good papers and possibly the death and health.
That's right.
I think that's true.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I don't think... That's a lot of great news from the Syrian papers.
But wait, we're all... The globe, I'm sure, is dabbling at it.
I mean, you've got an electronic paper.
I'm sure we do.
I went in the other day.
I said, I'm sick of hearing about this.
I want to go in.
Well, the first thing you go in is that these kids are all 12 years old that are running it and programming it.
And they are absolutely different breeds than what I'm do, sir.
And they know more about it than we do, too.
Oh, yeah.
He's done this for him.
Did you ever see that movie, The Paper?
Yeah, sure.
I love that.
Yeah, I love that.
I think of all the newspaper movies I've seen, it really does seem to be Michael Keaton.
Michael Keaton.
Did you see that, Mr. Winchester?
Yeah, I did.
It's very good, isn't it?
You know, the comedy movie may come up.
Which one?
No.
Is Redford doing it?
No, I think he's... Redford passed?
I think he passed.
I was just very excited about it.
I was kind of nervous about it.
Well, they spent well over a couple of million bucks on it.
Busing around and getting rips written and rewritten.
Which movie is this, sir?
Which movie is this you're talking about?
He had a tough go as the editor of the Atlanta Constitution.
I know that.
I think Pat Connery is writing a novel about that.
Bill Connery's a great friend of garbage and stuff.
He's the architect of the deal.
Is that right?
That didn't last long.
Well, I
What I like is that you give a lot of these little observations about the business.
I didn't want to put that all in one chapter.
It sounds so pompous.
It's nice though.
I know that I love books about the newspaper business.
to see a pro talk about it, not just his experiences, and to your credit, you also, you know, Janet Cook was their listener.
I mean, you talk about polar opposite stories.
It was almost a worthwhile experience though, wasn't it?
The Cook thing.
I mean, you hate to see what happened, you hate to return a Pulitzer Prize, as you did.
But nevertheless, I think it really had its
Maybe we had gone too far in the business and thought a lesson.
There's a lesson there.
Terrible.
And, you know, nobody died back then.
Nobody committed suicide.
It'll pass over, Benny.
It'll blow right over, Benny.
Come on.
That's what he said to me.
That's funny.
Two o'clock in the morning.
Welcome up.
Well, in the two, in Sapphires, he said you'd set your finger in his eye twice or something.
I was against him getting it.
The first time he was proposed for a Pulitzer.
You and I both.
You and I did.
We were two votes against him.
Everyone else voted for him.
We didn't sway anybody.
We were fussing around with who to give it to.
We didn't like any of the finalists that came up to us.
John Hughes reached down, a former Christian science monitor, reached down into a briefcase, and he pulled out two or three columns by soundbite and said, this guy was ahead of the news consistently, way ahead of the reporters.
On the breadland story.
He made a ring, ring... Was it as a columnist that he won?
Yeah, yeah.
Did you think that was a new story?
Well, he was just... No, I think you and I are going to get into it because...
Because he's just come off of being a black person for Nixon and so forth.
I think there's a little Watergate burning inside of us.
Maybe.
I don't know.
But anyway.
I interviewed him a couple of weeks ago.
He writes the best column in one.
He's the best column.
He does.
He writes a beautiful column.
He really can piss away.
Colin doesn't.
He does.
What a memory he's got.
Then I got...
He, um, had to do with Angleton.
Angleton.
Angleton was his friend.
And he dedicates this book to Angleton.
Oh, does he?
He does.
He absolutely dedicates it.
Jesus Angleton, he says.
An homage to Angleton.
Here's what, I mean, it defies belief.
He's so sophisticated.
He says that Angleton was looking for Mary's diary.
out of a commitment to protect the reputation of the President of the United States.
That's right.
My ass.
I mean, that just is not true.
In first place,
The CIA, after Bissell, did not like Kennedy.
After Cuba, they did not only didn't like it, they did not.
In second place, you know, he says that, what, Angleton kept that diary for two years, and he says he hopes he made a copy of it?
Why do you need that copy?
Am I crazy about that?
No, you're not.
Jeez.
But I finally terminally pissed off Cicely Angleton.
She's mad.
She says it.
that Jim was somehow nobly motivated.
Why the hell didn't he do that?
Why didn't he?
I don't know.
I've noticed in a few of the interviews you've done the 60-minute speech last week, which I thought was pretty good.
But inevitably, of course, you find other reporters who say,
You must have known about Kennedy's car.
Well, everybody says that.
Is that starting to get?
It gets out of my skin a little.
Because it seems so obvious to me that I would not talk to this man about fucking his wife were present and my wife were present.
And that was when I saw him.
I may have been able to get to him on the phone for a minute, but you didn't.
waste the minute you got but there was no scuttlebutt in the newsroom about it at all there really wasn't much scuttlebutt there was there was what uh what uh my dad once said he's a fearful girl but that was reputations about him yeah and going back to when he was not even married you know he and george smathers were the swordsmen of the senate that's funny because what i was doing like
the Bobby Baker thing, I was looking through all the files of the Star, Paul Holt and John Barron's files, they covered the Baker Trump.
I remember seeing one memo that said, Snatters and Kennedy are the biggest poor masters in the U.S., or were in the U.S.
Senate, but again, that's prior to Mary and Jackie.
But he did have a reputation with Snatters.
I mean,
Which one?
Whoremaster.
She's got to do a lot of talking before you call the whoremaster.
I didn't know about it, and I can't help it if they don't believe it.
What do you think?
If the powers that be knew about it, would he have been protected?
I mean, we all know that there's this great symbiosis that goes around it.
He might have made it to Mary Meyer, but he wouldn't have made it to
Nobody wants to talk about whether
what having an affair does in terms of does it make him a better president or a worse president?
Like he cares, right?
And you know, I've talked so much about this, including to a lot of women.
I don't think the women.
I think it's the guys that are sore about it than the women.
Maybe the multiplicity of it is really outrageous.
What do you think in general about the standard that's being...
placed on public people, not just politicians, but I mean, you know, remember how they followed Hart, what's his name around, what a stupid move that was, right?
They almost challenged them to do it, and they did it, and they caught him, I mean, that was amazing.
Was Hart done in hindsight?
Did we go too far?
He lied about it.
He didn't.
Larry Hart.
The other guy didn't lie about it because they never asked.
Would Hart have been a bad president?
I think Hart would have probably been a pretty good president.
You know, he was a pre-Clinton Clinton.
But did that compulsion and that compulsion to lie in December
Is that a disqualifying characteristic or evidence of a disqualifying?
I tend to think it was, but I hate to be in the position of being the judge of that.
You know, the president should be judged by the electorate, not by some goddamn editor.
You mentioned, I don't know if you use that word in the book, but the symbiosis that exists between reporters and...
And sources on the hill are in government.
And obviously that must still exist.
Do you think it's a productive thing?
Let's say you have a source who's giving you pretty good stuff.
You might overlook the fact that, you know, I'm not just about sexual, that's the case.
You know, I guess Bobby Baker's a great example.
Everybody, every reporter up there in the gallery knew he was building...
motels he was doing this the most money he ever made was the carousel of notion city maryland i guess is where it was yeah every the press all went out there and buses as his guest nobody ever wrote about it but because he was a pretty good source you'll get caught at it you knew it today and that's a that's a plus i mean if you go bail constantly for some truck or for somebody who's involved in the very sections you're gonna get caught
I'm quite amazed, though, by how literally people seem to accept the press as a cop, the press as a prosecutor, the press as an investigator.
I'm a great believer in the self-policing movement.
The ability of the press comes out every day.
I think we're pretty good at kind of correcting a lot of our errors.
More and more.
I bet you we're going to be a little more rational on snooping under the bed.
Remind me of the other professions that have that public policing of themselves.
Shirley's held Dr. Stone and until Steve Brill came along, Lawyer's Stone.
And, uh... Well, there's a story the other day about a doctor, a brain surgeon, opens up the wrong side of the skull, right?
Do some wrong surgery?
There have been two in Boston, wasn't there?
One is the Globe Reporter, and then there was something at Children's Hospital.
Somebody's already told me about that, knowing my interest in Children's Hospital.
The Globe Reporter's family.
I think many several.
And they settled right away.
And what happened to the doctor?
He got inspired.
Yeah, but I don't think it was the doctor's fault.
No, they landed on one of them.
It closed downhill, yeah.
You say that in the book, too.
Even in the newspaper business, it closed downhill.
Did you... You probably hired that one.
I knew her.
I worked with her in Worcester.
I knew her very well.
She's a good woman.
She's a nice, nice woman.
She could be a bitch, too.
That sometimes grows, but that's part of her.
It makes me good people.
She was a hell of a black guy.
With a PhD, that's what Ben called.
We talked about the bullets.
You discuss in the book how political it is.
How really one shouldn't necessarily construe receiving the award with the best
Is that a fear?
I'm not convinced that the best stories
Won a Pulitzer every year.
Wins, I guess.
Wins, yeah.
I've been home.
Everybody tells me I was very hot on them.
I bit my hand that got me for so long.
I probably did.
Did you get it on top?
No, I haven't gotten it from anybody yet.
Well, I mean, I've gotten it from... Kay gave it to me a little bit.
I think, jeez, do they really want to do that?
But do you ever... Do you feel...
following that the next step, but there are any stories that you guys did that were deserving of it.
Oh, I sure as hell did.
The year that we won the Watergate Prize, the jurors had not given us that prize.
They had not recommended that we get it, but they had recommended us to three others.
No kidding.
Three others, which is, you know, all the time ties the record.
And then they told, they agreed amongst themselves with me out of the room, although, before I got there, I guess, that we should win it for the Public Service Award for Watergate.
And that gave us four.
I was out of control.
I mean, I was just trying to be so... And then they took two away.
took one away from Haynes and they took one away from Bob Kaiser and Dan Morgan on foreign reporting.
And were they deserving of the interview?
Who knows?
I can't say that.
The best story always gets there.
He doesn't ever get it.
It's so arbitrary.
It's not like who has the most points at the end of that fourth quarter.
Who's captured the sympathy and admiration of the aggressor?
Who's got a hard-on for somebody?
There's also a lot of legitimacy.
It's funny that there's so much lobbying, it's almost like winning a high school trophy.
She's got the better PR firm.
Who's going to put together?
Well, you're not just supposed to lobby, but of course, you get caught lobbying in your day.
Yep, they do lobby.
Send out reprints.
I've seen them.
I never did that, did you?
In fact, the way we packaged our things was embarrassing.
It wasn't very good.
It had taste all over it.
You know, you had somebody's secretary or some girl up in the county or something did it.
I maintain we still hold a good record.
We got three in 1980.
We got three.
Well, it's in plus two seconds.
Yeah.
We got three at eight.
There's been two or three other times that I think require us on three.
I was on three a couple of years ago after I left.
yeah but you were in uh you went into exile after that you were blank for a while and i got blanked after well i got blanked after janet cook
He was the only guy from Washington, and he'd give him read those stories and say, yeah, no idea.
That story he had on the police department, man.
the mayor of washington announced the following day that they had a guy who knew who he was and then there was a dr gullity from howard said she was she was treating the mother whatever doubts we had disappeared if we had any i didn't know they were on the trail right there
Let me see if there's anything else here.
Growing up just fine.
He's got dignity.
He's quite an elephant there.
He's more grown up than he was.
I see a lot of them at the African Americans.
I think he's just great.
Have you met, you know his wife, Pat King?
No, you've been talking about it.
Is he nice?
Oh, God, she's probably nice.
She's got a wonderful woman.
She's white and black.
And she teaches at Georgetown Law.
And she's just great.
Yeah, he's a nice guy.
Some coffee, gentlemen?
What?
A cup of coffee?
Uh, yeah.
I don't have to be anywhere.
I'm so clear.
I've got to roll my liver over.
I've just been eating it.